Question details
You are given tuples of 3 characters each that belong to a user’s password (7-characters long without repeated symbols). Each tuple (a, b, c) represents that “a precedes b” and “b precedes c” in the user’s password (but doesn’t mean that the characters are adjacent). How do you guess the password?
Example:
(assume the password is 4-char long for simplicity of the sample)
You’re given the following tuples:
b c a
b c d
c a d

Password:
bcad

Example:
(assume the password is 4-char long for simplicity of the sample)
You're given the following tuples:
• b c a
• b c d
• c a d
Password:
• bcad

Background
Let the candidate know they can assume the following
The number of tuples is sufficient to correctly determine the password and it's guaranteed there is only one possible password which satisfy all the provided tuples.

Common Issues
How to address frequently asked questions or places where the candidate commonly gets stuck
Some candidates get a little bit stuck at the very beginning because they want to do probabilistic analysis on the first, simpler problem. Once they realize that there is a deterministic way of knowing we're done (kind of straightforward, but still some find it hard to see), they usually are able to get over it and focus on building the right graph and pruning it as new information comes in.
If candidate gets completely stuck, it's a good idea to propose thinking about the order of characters in the password and how can it be determined by provided tuples.
It's also a good idea to suggest thinking about smaller passwords (3, 4, 5 characters long). It should help candidate to figure out the pattern.

Follow Up Question #1: Relax length restriction
We relax the password length restriction --that doesn't fundamentally change the algorithm to solve it, but candidate should be able to explain how time complexity grows with the length.

Follow Up Question #2: Make it interactive but with predefined length
Here, we make it an interactive problem by allowing the candidate to request any number of new tuples. The candidate should propose an API to request new tuples and make code decides when it has enough data points to guess the password. It may change the algorithm (as we can't use static input and need to amend our potential result) but the idea will remain the same. It still can be determined deterministically when the password could be guessed. If the candidate struggles with interactive approach, suggest that they have an implemented method getTuple which they can call from any place of the code.

Follow Up Question #3: Interactive and no length restriction
The same as follow-ups 1 and 2 together. It increases the complexity significantly as it introduces uncertainty and resulted password could be guessed only with some level of confidence.

Follow Up Question #4: Relax Repeatability Restriction
In the original problem, we assume that characters in the password are unique. If we relax this restriction and allow characters to repeat, the problem becomes more complex. The candidate should be able to explain how this change affects the algorithm and what additional steps they would need to take to account for repeated characters


Answers on follow-ups:

Follow-Up #1: Relax Length Restriction (Password length unknown / larger)
🔹 What changes?
Nothing fundamental changes in the algorithm.
We still:
Build a directed graph of precedence constraints
Topologically sort it
The only difference is that:
Number of nodes V (unique characters) is no longer capped at 7
Graph can grow larger
🔹 Time & Space Complexity
Let:
V = number of unique characters
E = number of precedence constraints
Time   = O(V + E)
Space  = O(V + E)
As password length grows:
Nodes grow linearly with length
Edges grow linearly with number of tuples
👉 Scales efficiently even for large passwords
🔹 What to say in interview
“Removing the length restriction doesn’t change the approach.
The solution remains a topological sort, and time complexity scales linearly with the number of characters and constraints.”
Follow-Up #2: Interactive, Predefined Length
Now we don’t get all tuples upfront. We must request them dynamically.
🔹 Proposed API
def getTuple() -> Tuple[str, str, str]:
    ...
The system returns a new valid constraint each time.
🔹 Key Idea
We:
Incrementally update the graph
Maintain indegree counts
Try topological sorting whenever new info arrives
Stop as soon as the ordering becomes fully determined
🔹 How do we know we’re done?
Since length L is known:
Once topological sort returns exactly L nodes
And ordering is unique
→ we can confidently output the password
🔹 Algorithm sketch
Initialize empty graph & indegree
While result not uniquely determined:
    tuple = getTuple()
    update graph and indegree
    try topological sort
    if result length == L and no ambiguity:
        return password
🔹 Detecting uniqueness
If at any step:
Queue has more than one zero-indegree node
→ ordering still ambiguous
Only single-choice queue throughout ⇒ unique order.
🔹 What to say in interview
“In interactive mode, I incrementally update the DAG and attempt topological sorting.
Since length is known and solution is guaranteed unique, I can deterministically detect when enough constraints are collected.”
Follow-Up #3: Interactive + No Length Restriction
This is the hardest version.
🔹 What fundamentally changes?
We no longer know:
How many characters exist
Whether we’ve seen all characters
Whether ordering is final
So certainty is impossible.
🔹 Strategy Shift
Instead of deterministic answer:
Maintain confidence levels
Maintain partial ordering
Track stability of graph